docs: rewrite design explanation (#2251)
bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle: how-gazelle-works.md

### Generate

As Gazelle visits each directory, it calls extension methods to apply configuration, fix deprecated usage, generate rules, and index libraries. Most of Gazelle's work happens during this stage.

1. [`Configure`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/config#Configurer.Configure) is called in each directory Gazelle visits. Each extension can read directives from the `BUILD` file (if there is one) to decide what to do. Most directives apply to the directory the appear in and to subdirectories.
    - `Configure` is called in each directory in pre-order. All other methods in this stage are called in post-order. Sibling directories are visited sequentially (not concurrently) in lexicographic order.
    - `Configure` is called in each directory Gazelle visits, even if Gazelle won't update the `BUILD` file.
1. [`Fix`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/language#Language.Fix) is called in each directory that has an existing `BUILD` file. The purpose of this method is to fix deprecated rule usage, so extensions can make arbitrary transformations here.

> 1. [`GenerateRules`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/language#Language.GenerateRules) is called in each directory. This method returns rules that should be present in the `BUILD` file, and rules that should be removed. Unlike `Fix`, this method must not actually modify the rules parse from the `BUILD` file.

Reviewer: Would it be accurate to say this method "does not actually modify" instead of "must not actually modify" the rules parsed from the `BUILD` file?

1. [`merger.MergeFile`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/merger#MergeFile) is called to combine the generated rules with existing rules.
    - `MergeFile` attempts to match each rule with an existing rule. If a rule is not matched, it's added to the end of the file. Usually the matching is based on the rule kind (a `go_library` named `client`), but it can be influenced by other heuristics. 
    - Each attribute is merged separately. An attribute can be *mergeable* or not. If an attribute is mergeable, it's expected to be managed by Gazelle, so the merger can overwrite values that are already there (except for values marked with `# keep`). If an attribute is not mergeable, Gazelle may set an initial value, but won't overwrite it later.

>     - `MergeFile` also merges empty rules returned by `GenerateRules` with existing rules. This can delete existing rules if they're not marked with `# keep`. For example, this allows Gazelle to delete a `go_test` rule after all the `_test.go` files were removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `MergeFile` also removes rules that `GenerateRules` flagged for removal. This can delete existing rules if they're not marked with `# keep`. For example, this allows Gazelle to delete a `go_test` rule after all the `_test.go` files were removed. 
```

>     - Extensions don't directly participate in the merging process, though they can influence matching and merging by returning [`rule.KindInfo`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/rule#KindInfo) for each generate rule kind from the [`Kinds`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/language#Language.Kinds) method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Extensions don't directly participate in the merging process, though they can influence matching and merging by returning [`rule.KindInfo`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/rule#KindInfo) for each generated rule kind from the [`Kinds`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/language#Language.Kinds) method.
```

### Resolve

Gazelle resolves dependencies as a separate stage so it can use the index built by calling `Imports` during the previous stage.

1. [`Resolve`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/resolve#Resolver.Resolve) is called on each generated rule.
    - The extension that generated the rule should resolve dependencies, often using the index, then set `deps` and any related attributes.
    - To avoid redundant I/O, an extension may return information about import strings found in source files through [`GenerateResult.Imports`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/language#GenerateResult.Imports) when returning from [`GenerateRules`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/language#Language.GenerateRules). This value is opaque to Gazelle. It's passed back to `Resolve`.
1. [`merger.MergeFile`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/bazel-gazelle/merger#MergeFile) is called again to merge changes with existing rules in `BUILD` files.

### Write

> At this point, Gazelle has made all necessary changes to `BUILD` files in memory. It then formats files with [`build.Format`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/buildtools/build#Format) and writes files back to disk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, Gazelle has made all necessary changes to `BUILD` files in memory. It then formats these files with [`build.Format`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/bazelbuild/buildtools/build#Format) and writes them back to disk.
```
